
    1)What is encapsulation?

    Ans:-  Encapsulation in Python describes the concept of bundling data and methods within a single unit. So,
           for example, when you create a class, it means you are implementing encapsulation.
           A class is an example of encapsulation as it binds all the data members (instance variables)
           and methods into a single unit.

           encapsulation allows us to restrict accessing variables and methods directly and prevent accidental data
           modification by creating private data members and methods within a class.

           Encapsulation is a way to can restrict access to methods and variables from outside of class. Whenever we are working with the
           class and dealing with sensitive data, providing access to all variables used within the class is not a good choice.


    2) Access Modifiers in Python

        Encapsulation can be achieved by declaring the data members and methods of a class either as private or protected. But In Python,
        we don’t have direct access modifiers like public, private, and protected. We can achieve this by using single underscore and double
        underscores.

        Access modifiers limit access to the variables and methods of a class. Python provides three types of access modifiers
        private, public, and protected.

        Public Member: Accessible anywhere from within or outside class.
                       ex:-(self.name = name)

        Private Member: Accessible within the only class
                       ex:-(self.__name = name (access using "__" underscore))

                       We can access private members from outside of a class using the following two approaches

                       1)Create public method to access private members (exampal in private_accessmodifier.py)

                       2)Use name mangling (exampal in private_accessmodifier.py)

                            We can directly access private and protected variables from outside of a class through name mangling.
                            The name mangling is created on an identifier by adding two leading underscores and one trailing underscore,
                            like this _classname__dataMember, where classname is the current class, and data member is the private variable name.


        Protected Member: Accessible within the class and its sub-classes
                       ex:-(self._name = name (access using "_" underscore))


                       Protected members are accessible within the class and also available to its sub-classes. To define a protected member,
                       prefix the member name with a single underscore _. Protected data members are used when you implement inheritance and
                       want to allow data members access to only child classes.


reference : https://pynative.com/python-encapsulation/



